---
title: v7.0.0
---

SveltePixi v7.0.0 brings support for PixiJS v7.3.0. This is the first major version of SveltePixi and the first to support PixiJS v7. Going forward, the major version of SveltePixi will match the major version of PixiJS.

It is advised to read through the [PixiJS v7 Migration Guide](https://github.com/pixijs/pixijs/wiki/v7-Migration-Guide) to get an overview of the changes in PixiJS. Additionally the release notes for [v7.2.0](https://github.com/pixijs/pixijs/releases/tag/v7.2.0) are helpful to learn about the changes the interaction system.

# Features

- PixiJS v7 support
- [AssetsLoader](/api/components/assets-loader) component (see [breaking changes](#loader---assetsloader))
- [HTMLText](/api/components/html-text) component

# Breaking Changes

## Loader -> AssetsLoader

[PIXI.Loader has been replaced by PIXI.Assets](https://github.com/pixijs/pixijs/wiki/v7-Migration-Guide#-replaces-loader-with-assets) so the `Loader` component has been replaced by `AssetsLoader`. It works similarly but has a few notable differences:

- The `resources` prop is now `assets`. It accepts an array of urls or objects matching the [PIXI.UnresolvedAssetObject](https://pixijs.download/dev/docs/PIXI.html#UnresolvedAssetObject) type.
- `getResource()` has been removed, use `PIXI.Assets.get()` instead
- `getLoader()` has been removed, use `PIXI.Assets` instead
- If you need to call `PIXI.Assets.init(config)`, it should be done before rendering this component for the first time.

```svelte
<script>
  import { Application, AssetsLoader, Sprite, Text } from 'svelte-pixi'
  import * as PIXI from 'pixi.js'

  // optional - only if you need to set Assets configuration options
  const initPromise = PIXI.Assets.init({
    baseUrl: '/assets',
  })
</script>

{#await initPromise then}
  <AssetsLoader assets={['/sprite.png']}>
    <slot let:progress slot="loading">
      <Text text={`Loading... ${progress}`} x={200} y={200} anchor={0.5} />
    </slot>

    <Sprite
      texture={PIXI.Texture.from('/sprite.png')}
      x={20}
      y={50}
      width={360}
      height={300}
    />
  </AssetsLoader>
{/await}
```

## Interactivity changes

Pixi has replaced the InteractionManager with EventSystem. There are a few changes in behaviour:

- `interactive` and `interactiveChildren` props are now deprecated, please use [`eventMode`](https://pixijs.download/dev/docs/PIXI.DisplayObject.html#eventMode) which is available on all DisplayObject-based components.

- `eventMode` can be set on `<Application>` or `<Renderer>` to configure the default setting for components.

- `pointermove`, `mousemove`, and `touchmove` events have changed to be local to the object. To maintain v6 behaviour, rename them to `globalpointermove`, `globalmousemove`, and `globaltouchmove`.

- `buttonMode` prop has been removed, set `eventMode` and use `cursor="pointer"` instead.
