---
title: v8.0.0
sidebar:
  order: -1
---

Brings support for PixiJS v8.6.5 and Svelte 5 (Svelte 4 components still available). If you are upgrading from a previous version, please read
the [PixiJS v8 migration guide](https://pixijs.com/8.x/guides/migrations/v8) to get an overview of the changes in PixiJS. Most of these
are handled for you by SveltePixi but there are still a few breaking changes.

## Installation

```bash
npm install pixi.js@~8.6.0 svelte-pixi@~8.0.0
```

## Features

- PixiJS v8.6 support
- Rewritten for Svelte 5
  - Svelte 4 components are still available from `svelte-pixi/svelte-4`. [Read more on migrating to Svelte 5](/guides/upgrading-to-svelte-5)
- [PerspectiveMesh](/api/components/perspective-mesh) component
- [Application `stage` snippet/slot](http://localhost:4321/api/components/application#custom-stage)
- [onStageEvent](/api/utilities/on-stage-event/)
- [onContainerEvent](/api/utilities/on-container-event/)

## Breaking Changes

### Textures

In PixiJS v8 all textures **must** be loaded before use. You can use the [AssetsLoader](/api/components/assets-loader) component to do this.

```svelte
<script>
  import * as PIXI from 'pixi.js'
  import { AssetsLoader, Sprite } from 'svelte-pixi'
</script>

<AssetsLoader assets={['/my-texture.png']}>
  <Sprite texture={PIXI.Texture.from('/my-texture.png')} />
</AssetsLoader>
```

### Reducing bundle size

The method for reducing bundle size has changed. PixiJS v8 now ships a single bundle and dynamically imports
extras during Application initialization. If you were using a custom pixi.js bundle in v7 or earlier, see the new guide on [reducing bundle size](/guides/reducing-bundle-size).

### Components

#### Application / Renderer

##### Initialization is now async

In Pixi v8 Application and Renderer are now initialiazed asynchronously. The Application and Renderer components are affected in the following ways:

- When `<Application />` mounts it will call `init()` on the application instance. When it resolves, the instance prop is set and the children are rendered. This should be very quick but if you want to render HTML while it loads, you can use the `loading` snippet/slot.

- When `<Renderer />` mounts will call `autoDetectRenderer()` to get the renderer if the `instance` prop is not provided. Like Application, a `loading` snippet/slot will be rendered while it awaits, and `instance` will not be bound until it finishes. If `instance` is provided it will skip this and render immediately.

You most likely aren't affected by this unless you are manually binding to the `instance` props. If you are, be aware that the `instance` prop will not be bound until the initialization is complete.

See the [Application](/api/components/application) and [Renderer](/api/components/renderer) documentation for more information.

##### Changes to default prop values

In previous versions of SveltePixi the default Application/Renderer props were set to match PixiJS defaults according to their documentation. This was not ideal as it did not stay in sync with future PixiJS versions when those defaults changed.

Now, all props that are used for the PIXI.Application/Renderer options have no defaults so that PixiJS determines the default behaviour.

If you need to maintain the previous behaviour, set the Application or Renderer props to the following:

```svelte
<Application
  autoDensity
  antialias
  resolution={1}
  backgroundAlpha={1}
  backgroundColor={0x000000}
  height={600}
  width={800}
  preserveDrawingBuffer={false}
/>
```

##### Removed props

As a result of PixiJS API changes, the following props have been removed:

- `useContextAlpha`
  - use `premultipliedAlpha` and `backgroundAlpha` instead.
- `forceCanvas`
- `stage` (Renderer only)
  - use a Container as a child instead and bind to its instance

### BitmapText

#### Props

- `fontName` is now `fontFamily`
- `maxWidth` is now `wordWrapWidth`
- `tint` is now `fill`

### Container

#### Props

- `name` deprecated, use `label` instead. name will set label on instance.
- `isMask` removed
- `isSprite` removed
- `cacheAsBitmapMultisample` removed
- `cacheAsBitmapResolution` removed
- `cacheAsBitmap` deprecated by PixiJS v8, use `cacheAsTexture` instead
- `transform` removed in PixiJS for groupTransform, localTransform, and worldTransform properties, but they're all read-only anyway

### Graphics

If using the Svelte 4 components, there has been a slight change in the reactivity of functions when used with Svelte 5.
Previously you could inline a function to the `draw` prop and it would update when any used reactive state changed, but now the function must be declared as a reactive variable.

```svelte
<script>
  import { Graphics } from 'svelte-pixi'

  let foo = 0

  $: draw = (g) => {
    console.log(foo)
  }
</script>

<Graphics {draw} />

<!-- this will no longer be reactive -->
<Graphics
  draw={(g) => {
    console.log(foo)
  }}
/>
```

### Mesh

#### Props

- `drawMode` removed

### NineSlicePlane -> NineSliceSprite

Renamed in PixiJS to NineSliceSprite

#### Props

- `geometry` removed
- `state` removed
- `drawMode` removed

### ParticleContainer

Received an overhaul in PixiJS v8. Recommend reading the [ParticleContainer](/api/components/particle-container) documentation for how to use it with the new APIs.

#### Props

- `maxSize` removed
- `batchSize` removed
- `autoResize` removed
- `properties` removed

### SimplePlane -> MeshPlane

Renamed in PixiJS to MeshPlane

#### Props

- `drawMode` removed
- `geometry` removed, use `verticesX` and `verticesY` instead

### SimpleRope -> MeshRope

Renamed in PixiJS to MeshRope

#### Props

- `drawMode` removed

### TilingSprite

#### Props

- `uvMatrix` removed

### Ticker

#### onTick

The event payload for the ticker has changed in PixiJS v8. The payload is now the ticker instance.

```svelte
<script>
  import { onTick } from 'svelte-pixi'

  onTick((ticker) => {
    console.log(ticker.deltaTime)
  })
</script>
```

```svelte
<script>
  import { Ticker } from 'svelte-pixi'
</script>

<Ticker ontick={(ticker) => console.log(ticker.deltaTime)} />
```
